# Covid19-Delhi-Prediction

Abstract: Human history is observing a very strange time fighting an invisible enemy; the novel COVID-19, also known as the Corona Virus. Initially observed in the Wuhan province of China, now rapidly spreading around the world.
Unfortunately, India is recording the Fourth highest number of Covid-19 infected people in Asia. We’ve been facing this new enemy since January 2020, as the first case of the COVID-19 pandemic in India was reported on 30 January 2020 and we are all fighting every day against all the Economical and Social implications of this virus. Then, the COVID-19 pandemic was confirmed in the Indian union territory of Delhi, with the first case reported on 2 March 2020. Total infected people reported as on 18 May 2020 in Delhi is 10,054 consisting of 160 deaths and 4,485 recovery.
For the safety of the citizens of India, our Prime Minister Narendra Modi, has decided a nationwide lockdown. Experts say that a national lockdown imposed in India to slow the spread of the disease appeared to have been effective in slowing the infection. After lockdown 1.0, 2.0, 3.0, lockdown 4.0 has started from 18 May 2020 and “Delhi to put own guidelines”, Arvind Kejriwal (Delhi CM). Government of India is taking all necessary steps to ensure that we are prepared well to face the challenge and threat posed by the growing pandemic of COVID-19. With active support of the people of India, we have been able to contain the spread of the Virus in our country. The most important factor in preventing the spread of the Virus locally is to empower the citizens with the right information and taking precautions as per the advisories being issued by Ministry of Health & Family Welfare. The Indian government has also introduced an app known as Aarogya Setu App, App to connect health services with the people of India to fight COVID-19, which tracks cases of different states and forming a dataset to perform prediction. On such available data provided by the government, I’ll show you a simple mathematical analysis of the infection growth in people using Python and two models to better understand the evolution of the infection, which are the logistic function and the exponential function. The prediction has been done on Data Science using Machine Learning which is based on Supervised learning Technique.
The aim of the project is to predict the expected infection end date (till 18th May 2020) using Time Series models by analysing the data before applying lockdown 4.0 by Indian government which has several relaxations. Analysis included: 1) summary of patient characteristics; 2) examination of infection speed, day with the maximum infections occurred and total number of recorded infected people at the infection’s end; 3) calculation of expected infection end date; 4) Time series analysis of viral spread; 5) Logistic Model and Exponential Model curve construction; and 6) Residual analysis. This situation has opened up doors that we would have never thought to knock on. There is absolutely going to be a treatment. It's not a question of if, but when. And that treatment will most likely come from collaborations between drug discovery researchers and experts in data analytics and AI.


Problem Statement: Build a machine learning model To predict the total number of infected people till date (i.e. the actually infected people plus the people who have had been infected) and the expected infection end date (till 18th May 2020) using Time Series models by analysing the data before applying lockdown 4.0 by Indian government which has several relaxations.
